2016-12-12  
Virtual Assessment Network Meeting  
Location: https://bluejeans.com/124388012    

# Attendees 

| Name  | Organization  |  Role |   |
|---|---|---|---|
| Kari L. Jordan  | Data Carpentry  | Deputy Director of Assessment  | 
| Kate Hertweck  | University of Texas at Tyler  |  Assistant Professor |   |
| Kim Gurwitz  | H3ABioNet, University of Cape Town  | Training and Outreach Officer  |   |
| Alycia Crall  | National Ecological Observatory Network  | Science Educator/Evaluator  |   |
| Olav Vahtras  | KTH Royal Institute of Technology Sweden  | Professor of Theoretical Chemistry  |   |
| Elizabeth Wickes  | University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign  | Data Curation Specialist  |   |
| Karen Word  | University of California-Davis  | Postdoc, Lab for Data Intensive Biology  |   |
| Sam Donovan  | University of Pittsburgh & QUBES  | PI and faculty  | 
|  Marianne Corvellec | CRIM (computer science research centre in Montreal, Canada)  | Data Scientist  |   |

# Agenda
1. Introduction of New Members
  * **Olav** is developing a new Python course for undergraduates. He’s interested in assessment for this course in terms of grading.
  * **Karen** has background in teaching and instructional strategies. She’s excited to have people to talk to about assessment. This is a new world for her. She’s working with Titus Brown.
  * **Sam** is the PI on a multi-institutional research program called QUBES (5-year NSF project, QUBESHub.org). He’s working on helping faculty become more comfortable with using assessment tools. He works with the National Institute for STEM Evaluation and Research (NISER).
2. Review of last month’s collaborations
  * **Louisa and Kim** spoke about longitudinal feedback collection.
   a. When is the best time to collect feedback (relative to when courses are taught?) 
   b. Qualitative vs. Quantitative methods (following individual vs. a mass survey)  
   c. How to report data from longitudinal surveys (not much has been published). An [example](http://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004916) of a publication from Bioinformatics.ca which analysed longitudinal assessment data (post hoc collection of feedback from all participants who had attended their training activities in the past, therefore not quite longitudinal, but still interesting to see how they report). 
  * **Kari and Elizabeth** spoke about data management assessment/instruments and self-efficacy. There doesn’t seem to be many that focus on true data management (file naming, etc.)
  * **Kari and Kim** spoke more in detail about what they are each working on and challenges. They will discuss qualitative data this week.
3. Discussion: Data Management Practices
  * **Sam’s** format for programming with faculty is online semester long faculty mentoring network (10-12 people in a group meeting with experts throughout the semester). They’re assessing faculty usage of the tools and other metrics of success for the professional development program. They rely on NISER to do their data management.
  * **Alycia** and her team has just started putting together evaluation plans for the National Ecological Workshop. They are primarily using Excel and Qualtrics. Qualtrics has a lot of features for tracking survey responses and linking across data collection points. Pam Bishop has shared many insights. 
  * **Kate** uses Google Forms to collect data and export the .csv files into R for analysis.
  * **Karen** does half day workshops (Shell, R, GitHub) and uses Google Forms. She also does intensive summer workshops.
  * **Elizabeth** teaches faculty, students, and staff about data management topics. Everything from 5 minutes to 8 hours. No IRB because they don’t want to scare anyone off. [Link](https://www.ideals.illinois.edu/handle/2142/79492) to materials.
  * **Olav** has been running a PhD course in Computational Python. He also teaches SQL. Students submit a report and presentation based on their own data management needs.
  * **Kim** uses Google forms for application forms; [Vula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sakai_(software)) (not open source but developed from the Sakai project which is open source) course management platform for assessing participants (quizzes) and collecting feedback; R and excel for analysis
4. Collaborations
  * **Marianne/Alycia/Karen**: SPSS to R transition. [Repo](https://github.com/mkcor/assmtrepr)
  * **Kate/Kim/Olav/Sam**: Semester long conversation 
  * **Kim/Kari/Marianne**: Qualitative data analysis
  * **Elizabeth/Kim/Kari/Sam/Karen**: data management skills and self-efficacy measures [poster]
5. Review of Questions and Ideas
  * General agreement to move to quarterly meetings
  * Volunteer to organize for March? - Kari will teach Karen the ropes.
6. Adjournment

# Notes
1. Pam Bishop at the University of Tennessee Knoxville is someone we should speak with.
2. Difficult parts of data management for assessment:
  * Pairing surveys/assessments (pre- and post)
  * Coordinating among participants from different institutions (and continents!)
  * Longitudinal tracking (old data from different tools, and transferability to combining with new data)
  * Reproducible analyses (e.g., in R, with code published)
  * Assessing skills-based knowledge (e.g., when computer coding is required)
3. E-mail list: assessment-network@carpentries.org
