__2017-11-15__  
Virtual Assessment Network Meeting  
Location: https://carpentries.zoom.us/j/229615138 

# Attendees 

| Name  | Organization  |  Twitter |   |
|---|---|---|---|
| Kari L. Jordan  | Data Carpentry  | @drkariljordan  | 
| Louisa Bellis  | University of Cambridge, ELIXIR  | @ChemicallyLego  |   |
| Alycia Crall  | National Ecological Observatory Network  | @alycrall  |   |
| Kim Gurwitz  | H3ABioNet  |   |   |
| Marianne Corvellec |   |   |   |
| Elizabeth Wickes  | UIUC School of Information Sciences  |   |   |

# Agenda
+ __Report out: Pathways for Keeping Data Science Broad & Inclusive/Envisioning the Data Science Discipline (Kari)__
  + *What is data science, and what are the core competencies?*
    + Not having a background, but analytical skills to collect, organize, analyze, and curate.
    + Data science is transferable.
    + Useful to have a C.S. background, but not necessarily needed.
    + Big data-biological sciences.
    + As long as you can think analytically, organize, and curate large data sets, you’re good!
    + Data Engineer vs. Data Scientist vs. Data Analyst...the industry itself has no idea!
    + Social science statistics repackaged for men:)
    + Storytelling
    + Stats experts, analysts to understand the story behind the data.
    + Separate from data engineering (info stored in a warehouse)
    + Data analyst vs data base managers - distinctly different skills
    + Definition in NSF’s strategic plan-the extraction of knowledge from data
    + Using data to answer (research) questions
    + Definitions change from an industry perspective.
    + Data scientist uses multiple sources and move through different technologies, data analyst has a specific technical skill (domain expertise) and uses one tool (technological stack).
    + Storing, warehousing, upstream data flow 
+ __Working Pairs: Assessing Data Science Education__
  + Prompt 1: Challenges Assessing Data Science Education
  + Prompt 2: Vision for Assessing Data Science Education
  + Prompt 3: Stakeholders for Data Science Education
  + Prompt 4: What specific skills or resources are most important/lacking to address this challenge?
  + Prompt 5: How do our challenges fit into the national landscape?
  + Prompt 6: What is the broader impact of addressing our challenges?
  
__Kari and Marianne__  
*Challenges Assessing Data Science Education* 
- The notion of tidy data is a concept/standard we have to rely on.
- General things that are necessary, but don’t have a major impact.
- Someone may be good at core concepts, some may be good at little tweaks, but we need both.
- Measuring robust tools and reproducible workflows
- Data science workflows and common workflow language
- There are no “standards” for us to rely on.
- Standardized processes/reproducible workflows vs. exploration for the sake of exploration.

*Vision for Assessing Data Science Education* 
- Would it take a hands-on project to assess Data Science skills?  For example, student is exposed to a new dataset, they need to wrangle it/make it tidy, and try to see if their transformation/visualization functions work.
- Ask them, “what are the questions they are asking themselves”.
- People care about data types.
- Cultivating a culture of curiosity for data sets.

*Stakeholders for Data Science Education* 
- Handing info back and forth between domain experts and those working with the data.

*What specific skills or resources are most important/lacking to address this challenge?*
- Drawing information from domain experts, but not be too influenced by them.

*How do our challenges fit into the national landscape?*
- If I recall correctly, UBC and UC Berkeley offer Master-level Data Science curricula... 

*What is the broader impact of addressing our challenges?*
- Students would bring this culture back into their own research groups, labs, and teams. This would question the “grant culture”

__Elizabeth and Alycia__
- Baseline presumptions: We will be answering these questions using the perspective of the standard Carpentries learner.  
- This learner is motivated to do something better in their research workflow.
- We see two factors: 
  - An increasing need to work with larger data that require skills outside of the normal range of skills represented within  the Carpentries modules.  Examples:  data that cannot be distributed as a single file, data gathered from an API, data too large for loading in R, etc.
  - An increasing focus in many domains on data reuse and mashups, requiring more intensive data manipulation that single dataset shaping that’s a normal part of our training.

*Challenges Assessing Data Science Education* 
- Lack of consensus on what data science is
- Clearly defined goals/objectives for training to guide assessment
- Variability in trainings provided across organizations
- Related, but not specific to assessment
  - A 2011 report found that the US will need 1.5 million more data science professionals by 2020 and there are not enough students entering the field to meet the growing demand (Manyika et al. 2011).
  - Although most national universities offer some type of formal analytics program, only 2% of two-year institutions offer similar programs due to a lack of qualified instructors (Tableau 2016)

*Vision for Assessing Data Science Education* 
- Some form of standardized/shared metrics for across program comparisons

*Stakeholders for Data Science Education*
- Undergraduate faculty/instructors
- K-12 instructors
- Informal trainers
- Training businesses (e.g., DataCamp, Galvanize)
- Employers
- Students interested in relevant careers
- Individuals interested in professional development/career change

*What specific skills or resources are most important/lacking to address this challenge?*
- Comprehensive knowledge of what is already know from existing assessments, potentially external to “data science” assessments but other related fields
- See National Center for Women and Information Technology (NCWIT) for example of evaluation resources
- Lots of effort going on, but uncoordinated; need to develop approach for working together to jointly conquer these challenges (buzz word: “collective action” :-)

*How do our challenges fit into the national landscape?*
- The production of “big data” requires adequate training to effectively use those data for decision-making, research, policy development, etc. (broad application)
- Better training, those with skills support analyses of big datasets and policies driven by those analyses may have profound environmental and societal implications

*What is the broader impact of addressing our challenges?*
- Adoption of best practices for instructors teaching these skills
- Greater understanding of what are best practices for teaching data science
- More students adequately trained in preparation for a career in the data sciences

__Kim and Louisa__  
*Challenges Assessing Data Science Education*
- Having people answer the questions/take the assessment if not compulsory
- Heterogeneity in the individuals’ backgrounds (pre/post comparisons)
- Needs to be tailored to specific subject areas
- What are the right questions to ask
- Need for open ended comment questions which are difficult to mine/collate/analyse
- Assessing both what participants have learnt and the quality of the course
- Understanding the difference between the feedback gathered from courses where the participants have invested financially and where they have attended for free

*Vision for Assessing Data Science Education*
- Find some way to make the feedback compulsory (in a nice way)
- Have the ‘perfect’ set of questions that will allow for overall assessment of the courses (pre/post course as well as during the training)
- Plickers as a technique (verbal feedback)
- how often to assess, long term impact, keeping cohort engaged, teasing apart confounding factors over time

*Stakeholders for Data Science Education*
- General public, taxpayers, funders, potential trainees, trainers, course organisers, affiliated universities, governance
- What specific skills or resources are most important/lacking to address this challenge?
- How do our challenges fit into the national landscape?
- What is the broader impact of addressing our challenges?

+ __Next meeting scheduled for March__  
+ __Adjournment__ 

# Links
+ [South Big Data Hub](http://southbdhub.gatech.edu)
+ [Envisioning the Data Science Discipline](http://sites.nationalacademies.org/cstb/currentprojects/cstb_175246)
+ [Competencies](http://www.technocompetences.qc.ca/besoins-competences-2016) (Link from event Marianne attended-in French)
+ [Publication of interest](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005755)
