2016-11-14   
Virtual Assessment Network Meeting  
Location: https://bluejeans.com/124388012  

# Attendees 

| Name  | Organization  |  Role |   |
|---|---|---|---|
| Kari L. Jordan  | Data Carpentry  | Deputy Director of Assessment  | 
| Louisa Bellis  | University of Cambridge Dept. of Genetics  | EXCELERATE Training Impact Coordinator  | 
| Elizabeth Wickes  | University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign  | Data Curation Specialist  |   |
| Kate Hertweck  | University of Texas at Tyler  |  Assistant Professor |   |
| Alycia Crall  | National Ecological Observatory Network  | Science Educator/Evaluator  |   |
| Kim Gurwitz  | H3ABioNet, University of Cape Town  | Training and Outreach Officer  |   |
|  Ian Carroll | SESYNC  | Data Scientist  |   |

# Agenda
1. Introductions  
2. Discussion: **Purpose of Virtual Assessment Network**. 
What are you looking to gain from this network? What ideas, experience, and resources can you provide this network? 
  * **Alycia**: Interested in working together to compare assessment efforts across different programs (not just among ourselves i.e. people in this network). Interested in comparing demographics, how workshops are marketed in different groups, changes in knowledge/skills from workshops, etc.  
  * **Kate**: Interested in how we measure/assess productivity as scientists (# grant proposals, # manuscripts, etc.). Interested in longitudinal assessment. Interested in being able to manage literature for assessment of computer science based skills. 
  * **Elizabeth**: Has survey design and analysis experience. Has access to large populations if we need people to survey. Interested in activities related to data management. Has a large scale text analysis team at her institution. Also has a survey design lab that can help us. 
  * **Louisa**: Coordinating 10 countries around Europe to make one survey to be used across the board. Interested in looking at long-term feedback (current long term feedback isn’t well documented). Interested in qualitative data and how to analyze it. 
  * **Kim**: Interested in collecting and analyzing qualitative data. Has experience with blended learning, e-learning, and large cohorts. Interested in learning how people structure their analysis based on how the course is designed. 
  * **Kari**: Has experience in evidence-based instructional practices (active learning, etc.) and analyzing qualitative data.  
3. Brainstorming: **Potential Collaborations**  
  *	**Kim, Kate, Elizabeth** will touch base regarding semester long lessons/workshops. 
  *	**Kari and Kim** will discuss language in surveys (example using the term assessment vs. feedback). We’ll also discuss data analysis. 
  *	**Elizabeth and Kari** will discuss Elizabeth’s self-efficacy model for data management. 
  *	**Kim and Louisa** can discuss how to manage resources across countries. 
4.	**Heads up**: CS Concept Inventory and Assessment Replications [Google Group](https://gatech.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_8eupaW0zkAvqj4x) 
  *	This group exists to disperse information and share advice regarding the replication and validation of computer science concept inventories and assessment replications. 
5.	Review of Questions and Ideas 
6.	Adjournment 

# Questions                                                                                                                                                                         
1.	What meetings/conferences do you attend to network, learn, present?
  * **Kari**: American Society for Engineering Education ([ASEE](https://asee.org/conferences-and-events/conferences/annual-conference/2017)). [Abstract](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Lq51XSrkxu2-VEDaVtiRlruuABSBtUv14m1d5fvtzvE/edit) submitted by Kari for Data Carpentry
  * **Alycia, Ian**: Ecological Society of America ([ESA](http://www.esa.org/portland/))
  * **Alycia**:  Citizen Science Association ([CSA](http://citizenscience.org/association/conferences/citsci2017/)). Abstract in review so no link yet, but part of research and evaluation working group.
  * **Elizabeth**: [IASSIST](http://www.iassist17.dept.ku.edu/). This year’s theme: “Data in the Middle: The common language of research”
2.	How often will we meet?
  * Decision: We’ll meet again in December and then quarterly after that.
3.	What methods are used by each person to collate, store and analyse the feedback data?
  * Google Forms - **Ian, Elizabeth, Louisa, Kim**  
  * Qualtrics - **Alycia**
  * SurveyMonkey - **Louisa**
  * Print-outs of PDFs - **Louisa**
  * REDCap - **Kim**

# Ideas
1. Rotate meeting coordination among network members.
  * Kari will coordinate the meeting in December and next year we will rotate.
